# cancer-detection
Breast cancer (BC) is one of the most common cancers among
women worldwide, representing the majority of new cancer cases and cancer-related deaths according to global statistics, making it a significant public health problem in today’s society. In recent years, machine learning has been widely used in detection and achieved favorable performance. Our analysis provides a comprehensive guide to sensitivity analysis of model parameters with regard to performance in detection of breast cancer stages by predicting result in the form of dataset attributes. BC is the mostly common cancer among women and the second leading cause of cancer death. Early diagnosis of cancer is critical. The sample obtained by an invasive technique can be easily digitized and used for computationally based diagnostic. Using machine learning methods for diagnostic can significantly increase processing speed and on a big scale can make the diagnostic significantly cheaper. The analysis of dataset by machine learning algorithm to capture several information’s like, variable identification, uni-variate analysis, bi-variate and multi-variate analysis, missing value treatments etc. The main objective is to predictive analytics model to diagnose breast cancer stages of patients with selecting the highest accuracy result of supervised machine learning algorithm to improvise the prediction by ensemble learning method. Additionally, discuss the performance from the given hospital dataset with evaluation classification report and identify the confusion matrix. The data validation, data cleaning/preparing and data visualization will be done on the entire given dataset. So, the ensemble learning method is to categorizing the data from priority and the result shows that the effectiveness of the proposed machine learning algorithm technique can be compared with best accuracy with precision, Recall and F1 Score.



*GUI based detection of Breast Cancer stages and Grade of cancer based on previous records using an Ensemble Learning Method.
Helps doctors to detect the stage of breast cancer just by giving required details like lymph node details, node capsule details and quadrant position of cancer cells.* 
